# Parkinson_Classification
Deep learning Networks and Machine Learning Classifiers for Classification of Parkinson and Healthy Controls Using Recorded Vowels 

In this research, the UCI machine learning database was used. The data were collected from the Department of Neurology, Cerrahpasa Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul University, including data from 188 Parkinson's (107 males and 81 females) and 64 healthy (23 males and 41 females) people. Parkinson's patients were between 33 and 87 years of age and healthy individuals aged from 41 to 82. During data collection by the microphone, frequency response was set to 44.1 kHz and supervised by the physician, then each letter was recorded three times per each subject 
In this research, three important features of TQWT, WT, and MFCC are explained separately.
TQWT: This method is a type of wavelet transform with three adjustable parameters, (Q (Q-factor), r (redundancy), and J (number of levels)), for a higher-quality feature extraction concerning the signal behavior. The Q parameter is directly correlated with the number of signal oscillation. The relatively high values of this parameter are associated with large-signal oscillations in time-domain. The parameter r controls the excessive ringing of the sound to localize the wavelet in time without affecting its shape. The parameter J is considered as the number of levels during decomposition . In the present study, there are 432 TQWT features in the database.
WT: Wavelet transform is a useful tool for deciding on signals, especially in the case of small oscillatory signals. Certain features extracted from wavelet transform of speech signals are effective in diagnosing Parkinson's disease. The main reason for the use of such features is to obtain their variability in speech samples. Therefore, sudden spectral variability of speech samples can be detected . The wavelet transform process resulted in 182 features that were used for this study.
MFCC: This method that mimics the function of the human ear is known as a powerful tool for extracting features from speech signals to diagnose Parkinson's disease effectively . There are 84 features related to MFCC in the data used for this study.
